1) What is difference in Overloading and Over riding
-Method Overloading occurs when a class has more than one method having the same name.
-Method Overloading helps to increase the readability of the program
-Method overloading is an example of compile time polymorphism
-Which method to be processed depends on types of parameters, number of parameters, and return type.

-Method Overriding occurs when the method of the superclass is overridden in the subclass.
-It occurs with in two classes that has an IS-A relationship.
-Method overriding is an example of run time polymorphism


2) If both the functions are statis can we over ride

No, We cannot override static methods in Java.


3) Diffference bew Final , Finally and Finalize
-Final is used to apply restriction on classes,methods and vaiables.
-It cannot inherited, and if value is once declared it cannot be changed.

-Finally is used to place important code in a block.
-It will execute irrespective of exception handling.

-Finalize is a method. It performs clean up process before the object is collected by garbage collector


4) What are maker Interfaces?
-It is an interface
-It has no constants or methods inside it.
-It provides run time type information about the objects


5) What is Singleton class?
Class that have only one object at a time is Singleton class


6) What is the underlying Data structure for Arraylist and Linkedlist?
Arraylist is an array of object class.

Linked list is alinear datastructure, A linked list consist of nodes, where each node has a datafiled and a reference to next node in list.


7) What is hash collision?
It is the random mathing in hash values that occurs when a hashing algorithm produces the same hash value for two difference data.


8) What are lambda Expressions?
Lamda Expression is a small block of code , that take in parameters and return a value,
It provide a concise way to represent one method interface using an expression


9) Whats is functional interface?
An interface that contain only one abstract method.
 

10) What are optional classes in Java 8?
It is a final class that is used to deal with NullPointerException in java Application.


11) What is faced design pattern and Adapter and difference between them?
Facade pattern is more like a helper for client applications
Facade pattern can be applied at any point of development, usually when the number of interfaces grow and system gets complex.
Subsystem interfaces are not aware of Facade and they shouldn’t have any reference of the Facade interface
Facade pattern should be applied for similar kind of interfaces, its purpose is to provide a single interface rather than multiple interfaces that does the similar kind of jobs

Adaper, It is a structural pattern
It is useful to work with two incompatible interfaces
It makes things work after they're designed


12) What are Solid principles?
In Java, SOLID principles are an object-oriented approach that are applied to software structure design. 
The word SOLID acronym for:
Single Responsibility Principle (SRP)
Open-Closed Principle (OCP)
Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP)
Interface Segregation Principle (ISP)
Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP)


13) What does @component and @scan do in Sprinboot annaotation
What is the use of @component annotation in Spring boot?
@Component is an annotation that allows Spring to automatically detect our custom beans.
With Spring, we use the @ComponentScan annotation along with the @Configuration annotation to specify the packages that we want to be scanned. @ComponentScan without arguments tells Spring to scan the current package and all of its sub-packages.

14) Whats is the Diference bew JPA , Hibernate and ORM?
ORM: Object Relational Mapping is concept/process of converting the data from Object oriented language to relational DB and vice versa For example in java its done with the help of reflection and jdbc.
Hibernate: Its the implementation of above concept.
JPA: Its the one step above ORM. Its high level API and specification so that different ORM tools can implement so that it provides the flexibility to developer to change the implementation from one ORM to another (for example if application uses the JPA api and implementaion is hibernate. In future it can switch to IBatis if required. But on the other if application directly lock the implementation with Hibernate without JPA platform, switiching is going to be herculean task)


15) What is indexing in Database?
ndexing is a way to optimize the performance of a database by minimizing the number of disk accesses required when a query is processed. 

16) What are 4 types of Drivers in Jdbc?
Type-1 driver or JDBC-ODBC bridge driver
Type-2 driver or Native-API driver
Type-3 driver or Network Protocol driver
Type-4 driver or Thin driver


17) What is diffence between @component and @bean and @service?
If any class is annotated with @Component it will be automatically detect by using classpath scan. 
We should use @bean, if you want specific implementation based on dynamic condition.
@Service annotates classes at the service layer.


18) What is difference bew SOAP and restful services techinically?
SOAP is a protocol which was designed before REST and came into the picture. The main idea behind designing SOAP was to ensure that programs built on different platforms and programming languages could exchange data in an easy manner. SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol.
REST was designed specifically for working with components such as media components, files, or even objects on a particular hardware device. Any web service that is defined on the principles of REST can be called a RestFul web service. A Restful service would use the normal HTTP verbs of GET, POST, PUT and DELETE for working with the required components. REST stands for Representational State Transfer.

19) Difference in POST and PUT?
POST means "create new"  and PUT means "insert, replace if already exists"

PUT requests are idempotent. That is, calling the same PUT request multiple times will always produce the same result. In contrast, calling a POST request repeatedly have side effects of creating the same resource multiple times.

20) Is react uni directional or Bi directional
React uses unidirectional data flow.